docs: Update openid signing.md (#164)
sigstore/docs: content/en/cosign/openid_signing.md

position: 115
---

> The full design document for this feature can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/189w4Fp1GEA1b2P633HyqTwtcWFNTu_Af4meolMa_1_8/edit?resourcekey=0-QoqNqcHXvSuPnMUdn8RGOQ#heading=h.2mtrw7byet02)

Author: removed

(join sigstore-dev@googlegroups.com for access).

This document explains how keyless signatures work in Cosign.

To learn more about OIDC, please review [OIDC Usage in Fulcio](/fulcio/oidc-in-fulcio/).

Keyless signing uses ephemeral keys and certificates, which are signed automatically by the Fulcio root CA. Signatures are stored in the Rekor transparency log, which automatically provides an attestation as to when the signature was created.

Information on the Fulcio root CA can be found in the [fulcio repository](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio).

> ## Keys

Reviewer: This is outdated, we use a mechanism called TheUpdateFramework, TUF, to ship the roots of trust, including Fulcio's root certificate and Rekor's public key.

For this section, we should mention TUF. Here's a few links we could pull from:
* https://blog.sigstore.dev/the-update-framework-and-you-2f5cbaa964d5/
* https://dlorenc.medium.com/using-the-update-framework-in-sigstore-dc393cfe6b52

You can also point to https://docs.sigstore.dev/security/#sigstores-trust-root

Author: Mentioned TUF and put in a link to https://dlorenc.medium.com/using-the-update-framework-in-sigstore-dc393cfe6b52 which has a lot of detail about how it is used.

The root CA keys are hard-coded in Cosign today. They can only be changed by recompiling the binary. 

## OAuth flows

Cosign supports two OAuth flows today: the standard flow and the device flow.

> When there is no terminal attached (non-interactive mode), Cosign will automatically use the device flow where a link is printed to stdout. This link must be opened in a browser to complete the flow.

Reviewer: It might be useful to provide a walkthrough of what this process looks like:
* Open link in browser
* Authenticate with an identity provider (Google, GitHub, Microsoft)
* Redirected back to Cosign to complete signing

Maybe with an image of the authentication page too, where you see the three options to click?

Author: added

## Identity tokens

> In automated environments, cosign also supports directly using OIDC Identity Tokens from specific issuers. These can be supplied on the command line with the `--identity-token` flag. The `audiences` field must contain `sigstore`.

Reviewer: You can also mention the environment variable `SIGSTORE_ID_TOKEN` as an alternative

> Cosign also has support for detecting some of these automated environments and producing an identity token. Currently this supports Google and Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cosign also has support for detecting some of these automated environments and producing an identity token. Currently this supports Google and GitHub, in addition to other environments. See [Cosign's providers](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/tree/main/pkg/providers) for a complete list.
```

Author: added

position: 115
---

> This document explains how keyless signatures work in Cosign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains how identity-based, or "keyless" signing works in Sigstore.
```

To learn more about OIDC, please review [OIDC Usage in Fulcio](/fulcio/oidc-in-fulcio/).

> Keyless signing uses ephemeral keys and certificates, which are signed automatically by the Fulcio root CA. Signatures are stored in the Rekor transparency log, which automatically provides an attestation as to when the signature was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyless signing associates identities, rather than keys, with an artifact signature. Fulcio issues short-lived certificates binding an ephemeral key to an OpenID Connect identity. Signing events are logged in Rekor, a signature transparency log, providing an auditable record of when a signature was created.
```

Reviewer: Rephrasing for clarity

> Information on the Fulcio root CA can be found in the [fulcio repository](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Fulcio repository](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio) and [Rekor repository](https://github.com/sigstore/rekor) for more information.
```

> ## Keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Roots of Trust
```

Reviewer: just this change, everything else LGTM

> The root CA keys leverage the principles of The Update Framework (TUF).  TUF is a set of defined attacks and threat models specific to software distribution systems. It provides a set of protocols to protect against various types of attacks, which the Trust Root follows. For more information about how Sigstore uses TUF, see [How Sigstore uses TUF](https://dlorenc.medium.com/using-the-update-framework-in-sigstore-dc393cfe6b52)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sigstore's root of trust, which includes Fulcio's root CA certificate and Rekor's public key, are distributed by The Update Framework (TUF). TUF is a framework to provide secure software and file updates. TUF defines a set of protocols to protect against [various types of attacks](https://theupdateframework.io/security/). For more information about how Sigstore uses TUF, see [How Sigstore uses TUF](https://dlorenc.medium.com/using-the-update-framework-in-sigstore-dc393cfe6b52)
```

## OAuth flows

Cosign supports two OAuth flows today: the standard flow and the device flow.

When there is no terminal attached (non-interactive mode), Cosign will automatically use the device flow where a link is printed to stdout. This link must be opened in a browser to complete the flow.

> ## Identity tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Identity tokens
```

> In automated environments, Cosign also supports directly using OIDC Identity Tokens from specific issuers. These can be supplied on the command line with the `--identity-token` flag. The `audiences` field must contain `sigstore`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In automated environments, Cosign also supports directly using OIDC Identity Tokens from specific issuers. These can be supplied on the command line with the `--identity-token` flag. The `audiences` claim in the token must contain `sigstore`.
```

### Logging in to identity issuers

To log in and set up your OIDC Identity, follow these steps:

> 1. Navigate to the [Issuer login page](https://oauth2.sigstore.dev/auth/auth).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the link that Cosign provides to the Issuer login page.
```

Reviewer: The link has more parameters, specific to a single login, so Id rather say something more generic

2. Log in to one of the supported systems that is shown:

> ![Identity Sign-in](/cosign_identity_login.png)

Reviewer: I think you need to include /static in the path

Author: I built the website and it worked without static.

Reviewer: SG! Just wasn't sure.

3. Go back to your terminal or other application. Redirection back to Cosign is seamless.

> Currently Cosign supports Microsoft, Google, and Github.  As an alternative you can also use the environment variable `SIGSTORE_ID_TOKEN` to identify yourself. Cosign also has support for detecting some of these automated environments and producing an identity token. Currently this supports Google and GitHub, in addition to other environments. See [Cosign's providers](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/tree/main/pkg/providers) for a complete list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently Sigstore supports Microsoft, Google, and GitHub. As an alternative you can also use the environment variable `SIGSTORE_ID_TOKEN` to identify yourself. Cosign also has support for detecting some of these automated environments and producing an identity token. Currently this supports Google and GitHub, in addition to other environments. See [Cosign's providers](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/tree/main/pkg/providers) for a complete list.
```

3. Set the `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAME` environment variable to the name of the target account in your cloudbuild.yaml
4. Sign images in GCB, without keys!

## Custom infrastructure

If you're running your own sigtore services flags are available to set your own endpoint's, e.g

```

>  Cosign go run cmd/cosign/main.go sign -oidc-issuer "https://oauth2.example.com/auth" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cosign sign --oidc-issuer "https://oauth2.example.com/auth" \
```

Author: updated

>                         -fulcio-url "https://fulcio.example.com" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        --fulcio-url "https://fulcio.example.com" \
```

Author: updated

>                         -rekor-url "https://rekor.example.com"  \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        --rekor-url "https://rekor.example.com"  \
```

>                         ghcr.io/jdoe/somerepo/testcosign

Reviewer: Can we rename the section below to "Custom roots of trust"? We can discuss three configurations:
* SIGSTORE_ROOT_FILE - A list of PEM-encoded root CA certificates to verify identity certificates
* SIGSTORE_REKOR_PUBLIC_KEY - A PEM-encoded public key for verifying Rekor entries
* SIGSTORE_CT_LOG_PUBLIC_KEY_FILE - A PEM-encoded public key for verifying certificates written to the Certificate Transparency log

Author: added

3. Set the `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAME` environment variable to the name of the target account in your cloudbuild.yaml
4. Sign images in GCB, without keys!

## Custom infrastructure

If you're running your own sigtore services flags are available to set your own endpoint's, e.g

```

>  Cosign sign -oidc-issuer "https://oauth2.example.com/auth" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 cosign sign --oidc-issuer "https://oauth2.example.com/auth" \
```

                        --fulcio-url "https://fulcio.example.com" \
                        --rekor-url "https://rekor.example.com"  \
                        ghcr.io/jdoe/somerepo/testcosign

```

> ### Custom roots of trust

Reviewer: Just realized this is already documented in https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/custom_components/. Can we link to this in "Custom roots of trust" and remove the duplicated environment variable docs?
